---
layout: article
title: Inclusion files and arguments passing
slug: inclusion-files-and-arguments-passing
category: english
tags:
  - jekyll
  - documentation
summary: Inclusion files and arguments passing.
order: 103
date: 2014-07-05T00:00:00Z
---

This is the 3rd part of a series of articles about [Jekyll], a blog aware static
website creation tool.
During the [first part]({% link _articles/english/jekyll/01.md %})
I've presented the quick startup to create a minimal autogenerated website using
Jekyll while in the
[second part]({% link _articles/english/jekyll/02.md %})
the differences between pages and posts were shown.

Where multiple pages or posts require the same part of code, even if little
differences can happen between their usage, a great solution is to put the
common code inside an inclusion file.

Every file saved into the **_include** folder could be included inside any other
page or post using:

    {{ "{%" }} include filename %}

The whole code will be copied inside the page as if it was written inside the
page. Obviously the included file can have other includes or other liquid tags.

If you look at the content of the file **_layouts/page.html** you can see:

    ---
    layout: default
    ---
    <div class="post">

      <header class="post-header">
        <h1>{{ "{{" }} page.title }}</h1>
      </header>

      <article class="post-content">
        {{ "{{" }} content }}
      </article>

    </div>

The default file **_layouts/post.html** instead contains:

    ---
    layout: default
    ---
    <div class="post">

      <header class="post-header">
        <h1>{{ "{{" }} page.title }}</h1>
        <p class="meta">{{ "{{" }} page.date | date: "%b %-d, %Y" }}
          {{ "{%" }} if page.author %} • {{ "{{" }} page.author }}{{ "{%" }} endif %}
          {{ "{%" }} if page.meta %} • {{ "{{" }} page.meta }}{{ "{%" }} endif %}</p>
      </header>

      <article class="post-content">
        {{ "{{" }} content }}
      </article>

    </div>

The two files are really similar, except a single line their whole content is
the same. These two files are optimal candidates to use the inclusion tag with
the advantage to have a single copy of the code and to avoid redundancies, while
doing the code maintenance simpler and uniform whenever any change to the code
would happen. If you have a single copy of a code, a change or fix will
automatically be applied to any pages that use the same included file.

To handle the different line between the two files we could use a simple check
to exclude such line from the rendered page by simply passing an argument to
the included file, so let's create a new file called **_include/post_content.html**:

    <div class="post">

      <header class="post-header">
        <h1>{{ "{{" }} page.title }}</h1>
    {{ "{%" }} if include.meta_paragraph %}
        <p class="meta">{{ "{{" }} page.date | date: "%b %-d, %Y" }}
          {{ "{%" }} if page.author %} • {{ "{{" }} page.author }}{{ "{%" }} endif %}
          {{ "{%" }} if page.meta %} • {{ "{{" }} page.meta }}{{ "{%" }} endif %}</p>
    {{ "{%" }} endif %}
      </header>

      <article class="post-content">
        {{ "{{" }} content }}
      </article>

    </div>

The **include.meta_paragraph** is a value that will be passed to the included
file. If the passed value will be true then the paragraph will be added to the
page else it will not be written at all.

So to change the **_layouts/page.html** file content to:

    ---
    layout: default
    ---
    {{ "{%" }} include post_content.html meta_paragraph=false %}

The **meta_paragraph** will become **include.meta_paragraph** inside the
included file and it will be checked to produce or omit the paragraph.

The **_layouts/post.html** will contain:

    ---
    layout: default
    ---
    {{ "{%" }} include post_content.html meta_paragraph=true %}

Et voilà, both files now are similar and a single copy of the code is needed
to handle both layout pages.

{: target="_blank" .external }
[Jekyll]: http://jekyllrb.com/
