---
title: Pages and posts in Jekyll
category: english
tags:
  - jekyll
  - documentation
summary: What are pages and posts for Jekyll? The differences between these two items.
---

This is the 2nd part of a series of articles about
[**Jekyll**](http://jekyllrb.com/), a blog aware static website creation tool.
During the [first part]({% post_url english/2014-06-29-welcome-jekyll %}) I've
presented the quick startup to create a minimal autogenerated website using Jekyll.

Inside the **_layouts** folder of an automatically generated by Jekyll website
we can find three files: default.html, page.html and post.html.
The first one is the general layout for every page in the site, the second one
is specific for normal pages while the third is specific for posts (articles
whose pages will be automatically created and handled) inside the **_posts**
folder.

The main difference between a page and a post is that **a page** will need to be
explicitly created outside of the _posts folder and it will be served as it was
created, if you create a page called /about.html then your site at
http://localhost:4000/about.html will serve such page.

A **post page** instead must be created inside the **_posts** folder with a
date-title filename, like 2014-06-29-welcome-to-jekyll.markdown and it will be
served as http://localhost:4000/category/subcategory/year/month/day/title/index.html.

In the Jekyll's vision the pages should be used for general information pages,
like index, abouts, legals or links pages. The posts are useful to handle the
web content as a blog, when a new item (post) is published a new page will be
added to the contents, under a predictable structure.

Both these two rules can be customized using a directive called permalink but
the above is the default behavior for newly created pages or posts.