---
title: Weekly updates
category: english
summary: Updates from 2014-07-14 to 2014-07-20
---

{% include updates_date.inc weekday_number=1 day_number=14 month_number=7 year=2014 %}

{% include updates_aur.inc type='update' pkgname='gmtp' pkgver='1.3.6' pkgrel=2 %}
Updated desktop database after installation to make the desktop shortcut visible
without having to restart the desktop environment.

## Translated gMTP 1.3.6 to Italian language
An updated Italian translation for gMTP was provided to the upstream author
fixing a lot of auto-translated terms. The next version 1.3.7 will include this
new translation.

{% include updates_aur.inc type='adopt' pkgname='eclipse-jee' pkgver='4.3.2' pkgrel=1 %}
Adopted the orphaned package eclipse-jee, a version of Eclipse with Java
Enterprise Edition support, allowing to build server side web applications
written in Java.

{% include updates_date.inc weekday_number=3 day_number=16 month_number=7 year=2014 %}

{% include updates_aur.inc type='update' pkgname='spyder' pkgver='2.3.0' pkgrel=1 %}
Added some fixes to build with Python 2.x series.

{% include updates_aur.inc type='update' pkgname='eclipse-jee' pkgver='4.3.2' pkgrel=2 %}
Various fixes to the PKGBUILD.

Removed the obsolete changelog.

{% include updates_aur.inc type='update' pkgname='eclipse-jee' pkgver='4.4.0' pkgrel=1 comment=' Luna'%}

{% include updates_date.inc weekday_number=7 day_number=20 month_number=7 year=2014 %}

{% include updates_aur.inc type='new' pkgname='spyder3' pkgver='2.3.0' pkgrel=2 %}
Splitted the **spyder** package to build also **spyder3**, a specific version
for Python 3.x series.
